president Gustavo Petro made the
announcement in front of tens of
thousands of his supporters in Bogota at
the end of the MayDay
Parade the government of change of the
president of the Republic announces that
tomorrow we will break diplomatic
relations with the state of Israel for
having a government and a president who
is genocidal today all of humanity in
the streets by the millions agrees with
us and we agree with them the times of
genocide of the extermination of an
entire people cannot return before our
eyes we cannot remain passive if
Palestine dies Humanity dies and we will
not let it
die pet has been a Critic of Israeli
actions in Gaza since the start of the
war formerly requesting to join South
Africa's case accusing Israel of
genocide at the international court of
justice Israel responded by calling
petran anti-semite but his supporters
say they're president is
right is the right and necessary thing
to do in countries that pretend to be
truly Democratic and that respect
international law Israel is committing a
genocide killing children cutting ties
is the bare minimum necessary to stop
Zionism responsible for the death of
thousands of
Palestinians but the decision will be
divisive in a country with traditionally
close Commercial and Military ties with
Israel Pet's announcement was a
calculated move to shore up support and
excite his base at a time when he's
struggling to move forward its ambitious
social and economic
reforms Colombia is the third country in
South America after Bolivian belies to
cut ties with Israel Over the war but
it's by far the largest and most
important two things ConEd here major
rallies in the country a moment of great
polarization that calls for taking sides
and the expectation of the next attack
by Israel in Rafa which will bring more
Carnage in
Gaza Petra's decision might not change
conditions on the ground but puts him
and his government at the Forefront of
the growing condemnation against the war
alexand Al jaaz
bot make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer